Title: Ensuring Fairness in Machine Learning to Advance Health Equity
Published: 2018-12-04
Link: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/82a5a84528a7ca0409f75e2211a3b33a217e9bac

Abstract:
Machine learning can identify the statistical patterns of data generated by tens of thousands of physicians and billions of patients to train computers to perform specific tasks with sometimes superhuman ability, such as detecting diabetic eye disease better than retinal specialists (1). However, historical data also capture patterns of health care disparities, and machine-learning models trained on these data may perpetuate these inequities. This concern is not just academic. In a model used to predict future crime on the basis of historical arrest records, African American defendants who did not reoffend were classified as high risk at a substantially higher rate than white defendants who did not reoffend (2, 3). Similar biases have been observed in predictive policing (4) and identifying which calls to a child protective services agency required an in-person investigation (5, 6). The implications for health care led the American Medical Association to pass policy recommendations to promote development of thoughtfully designed, high-quality, clinically validated health care AI [artificial or augmented intelligence, such as machine learning] that . . . identifies and takes steps to address bias and avoids introducing or exacerbating health care disparities including when testing or deploying new AI tools on vulnerable populations (7). We argue that health care organizations and policymakers should go beyond the American Medical Association's position of doing no harm and instead proactively design and use machine-learning systems to advance health equity. Whereas much health disparities work has focused on discriminatory decision making and implicit biases by clinicians, policymakers, organizational leaders, and researchers are increasingly focusing on the ill health effects of structural racism and classismhow systems are shaped in ways that harm the health of disempowered, marginalized populations (8). For example, the United States has a shameful history of purposive decisions by government and private businesses to segregate housing. Zoning laws, discrimination in mortgage lending, prejudicial practices by real estate agents, and the ghettoization of public housing all contributed to the concentration of urban African Americans in inferior housing that has led to poor health (9, 10). Even when the goal of decision makers is not outright discrimination against disadvantaged groups, actions may lead to inequities. For example, if the goal of a machine-learning system is to maximize efficiency, that might come at the expense of disadvantaged populations. As a society, we value health equity. For example, the Healthy People 2020 vision statement aims for a society in which all people live long, healthy lives, and one of the mission's goals is to achieve health equity, eliminate disparities, and improve the health of all groups (11). The 4 classic principles of Western clinical medical ethics are justice, autonomy, beneficence, and nonmaleficence. However, health equity will not be attained unless we purposely design our health and social systems, which increasingly will be infused with machine learning (12), to achieve this goal. To ensure fairness in machine learning, we recommend a participatory process that involves key stakeholders, including frequently marginalized populations, and considers distributive justice within specific clinical and organizational contexts. Different technical approaches can configure the mathematical properties of machine-learning models to render predictions that are equitable in various ways. The existence of mathematical levers must be supplemented with criteria for when and why they should be usedeach tool comes with tradeoffs that require ethical reasoning to decide what is best for a given application. We propose incorporating fairness into the design, deployment, and evaluation of machine-learning models. We discuss 2 clinical applications in which machine learning might harm protected groups by being inaccurate, diverting resources, or worsening outcomes, especially if the models are built without consideration for these patients. We then describe the mechanisms by which a model's design, data, and deployment may lead to disparities; explain how different approaches to distributive justice in machine learning can advance health equity; and explore what contexts are more appropriate for different equity approaches in machine learning. Case Study 1: Intensive Care Unit Monitoring A common area of predictive modeling research focuses on creating a monitoring systemfor example, to warn a rapid response team about inpatients at high risk for deterioration (1315), requiring their transfer to an intensive care unit within 6 hours. How might such a system inadvertently result in harm to a protected group? In this thought experiment, we consider African Americans as a protected group. To build the model, our hypothetical researchers collected historical records of patients who had clinical deterioration and those who did not. The model acts like a diagnostic test of risk for intensive care unit transfer. However, if too few African American patients were included in the training datathe data used to construct the modelthe model might be inaccurate for them. For example, it might have a lower sensitivity and miss more patients at risk for deterioration. African American patients might be harmed if clinical teams started relying on alerts to identify at-risk patients without realizing that the prediction system underdetects patients in that group (automation bias) (16). If the model had a lower positive predictive value for African Americans, it might also disproportionately harm them through dismissal biasa generalization of alert fatigue in which clinicians may learn to discount or dismiss alerts for African Americans because they are more likely to be false-positive (17). Case Study 2: Reducing Length of Stay Imagine that a hospital created a model with clinical and social variables to predict which inpatients might be discharged earliest so that it could direct limited case management resources to them to prevent delays. If residence in ZIP codes of socioeconomically depressed or predominantly African American neighborhoods predicted greater lengths of stay (18), this model might disproportionately allocate case management resources to patients from richer, predominantly white neighborhoods and away from African Americans in poorer ones. What Is Machine Learning? Traditionally, computer systems map inputs to outputs according to manually specified ifthen rules. With increasingly complex tasks, such as language translation, manually specifying rules becomes infeasible, and instead the mapping (or model) is learned by the system given only input examples represented through a set of features together with their desired output, referred to as labels. The quality of a model is assessed by computing evaluation metrics on data not used to build the model, such as sensitivity, specificity, or the c-statistic, which measures the ability of a model to distinguish patients with a condition from those without it (19, 20). Once the model's quality is deemed satisfactory, it can be deployed to make predictions on new examples for which the label is unknown when the prediction is made. The quality of the models on retrospective data must be followed with tests of clinical effectiveness, safety, and comparison with current practice, which may require clinical trials (21). Traditionally, statistical models for prediction, such as the pooled-cohort equation (22), have used few variables to predict clinical outcomes, such as cardiovascular risk (23). Modern machine-learning techniques, however, can consider many more features. For example, a recent model to predict hospital readmissions examined hundreds of thousands of pieces of information, including the free text of clinical notes (24). Complex data and models can drive more personalized and accurate predictions but may also make algorithms hard to understand and trust (25). What Can Cause a Machine-Learning System to Be Unfair? The Glossary lists key biases in the design, data, and deployment of a machine-learning model that may perpetuate or exacerbate health care disparities if left unchecked. The Figure reveals how the various biases relate to one another and how the interactions of model predictions with clinicians and patients may exacerbate health care disparities. Biases may arise during the design of a model. For example, if the label is marred by health care disparities, such as predicting the onset of clinical depression in environments where protected groups have been systematically misdiagnosed, then the model will learn to perpetuate this disparity. This represents a generalization of test-referral bias (26) that we refer to as label bias. Moreover, the data on which the model is developed may be biased. Data on patients in the protected group might be distributed differently from those in the nonprotected group because of biological or nonbiological variation (9, 27). For example, the data may not contain enough examples from a group to properly tailor the predictions to them (minority bias) (28), or the data set of the protected group may be less informative because features are missing not at random as a result of more fragmented care (29, 30). Glossary Figure. Conceptual framework of how various biases relate to one another. During model development, differences in the distribution of features used to predict a label between the protected and nonprotected groups may bias a model to be less accurate for protected groups. Moreover, the data used to develop a model may not generalize to the data used during model deployment (trainingserving skew). Biases in model design and data affect patient outcomes through the model's interaction with clinicians and patients. The immediate effect of these differences is that the model may 
