Title: Understanding of Machine Learning with Deep Learning: Architectures, Workflow, Applications and Future Directions
Published: 2023-04-25
Link: https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/df70977e0347b76fb049c17c3956f643bcb43a55

Abstract:
In recent years, deep learning (DL) has been the most popular computational approach in the field of machine learning (ML), achieving exceptional results on a variety of complex cognitive tasks, matching or even surpassing human performance. Deep learning technology, which grew out of artificial neural networks (ANN), has become a big deal in computing because it can learn from data. The ability to learn enormous volumes of data is one of the benefits of deep learning. In the past few years, the field of deep learning has grown quickly, and it has been used successfully in a wide range of traditional fields. In numerous disciplines, including cybersecurity, natural language processing, bioinformatics, robotics and control, and medical information processing, deep learning has outperformed well-known machine learning approaches. In order to provide a more ideal starting point from which to create a comprehensive understanding of deep learning, also, this article aims to provide a more detailed overview of the most significant facets of deep learning, including the most current developments in the field. Moreover, this paper discusses the significance of deep learning and the various deep learning techniques and networks. Additionally, it provides an overview of real-world application areas where deep learning techniques can be utilised. We conclude by identifying possible characteristics for future generations of deep learning modelling and providing research suggestions. On the same hand, this article intends to provide a comprehensive overview of deep learning modelling that can serve as a resource for academics and industry people alike. Lastly, we provide additional issues and recommended solutions to assist researchers in comprehending the existing research gaps. Various approaches, deep learning architectures, strategies, and applications are discussed in this work.
